.TH MCRT 1 "October 2017"
.SH NAME
mcrt \- monte carlo raytracer from scratch
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmcrt\fR \fIIMAGE-FILE\fR [\fISCENE-FILE\fR] [\fIPARAM-FILE\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Renders the given \fISCENE-FILE\fR to an \fIIMAGE-FILE\fR using the settings in \fIPARAM-FILE\fR. The raytracer will automatically deduce the image filetype by looking at the given extension, which can either be *.ppm (Netpbm Portable PixMap), *.ff (Suckless Farbfeld) or *.png (Portable Network Graphic). The scene is specified using a JSON file, but since there is no official documentation on the format, please look at /usr/share/mcrt/scene.json or /usr/share/mcrt/cornell.json for example usage. Same thing applies to the raytracer's parameter file, there is a set of example parameters given in /usr/share/mcrt/param.json. If neither the scene or the parameter file is given, you'll get the default scene and parameters. If a maintainer hasn't done anything, you'll only get an empty scene per default, so the render will only be a black image. If so, look below at the examples part.
.SH EXAMPLES
\fBmcrt scene-render.png scene.json parameters.json\fR: renders your own scene with your own set of parameters given in the current working directory.

\fBmcrt scene-render.png /usr/share/mcrt/scene.json /usr/share/mcrt/param.json\fR: renders the bundled example scene with the default parameters.

\fBmcrt cornell-box.ff /usr/share/mcrt/cornell.json /usr/share/mcrt/param.json\fR: renders the well known Cornell box scene using the same parameters.

\fBmcrt-view render.png /usr/share/mcrt/scene.json /usr/share/mcrt/param.json\fR: progressively render the example scene and use \fBfeh(1)\fR to preview it.
.SH FILES
\fB/usr/share/mcrt/scene.json\fR: example scene file which displays most of the features of the raytracer.

\fB/usr/share/mcrt/cornell.json\fR: another well known scene, it's an exact size replica of it in fact.

\fB/usr/share/mcrt/param.json\fR: set of raytracer parameters with render resolution and sample amount.

\fB/usr/share/mcrt/bunny.obj\fR: the bundled Stanford bunny mesh, which might be useful for testing scene.

\fB/usr/share/mcrt/teapot.obj\fR: the famous Utah teapot, used in the example scene.
.SH AUTHORS
M. Estgren, R. Hedin, E. S. V. Jansson
.SH COPYRIGHT
The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright © 2017 M. Estgren, R. Hedin, E. S. V. Jansson

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person
obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation
files (the “Software”), to deal in the Software without
restriction, including without limitation the rights to use,
copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following
conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED “AS IS”, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT
HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.SH SEE ALSO
https://github.com/CaffeineViking/mcrt
